Let’s start by going
to Hebrews 13:16, please.
Of interest in the English edition
of the New World Translation,
the first word in this verse
is a connective word.
And when we give attention
to connective words and phrases
in our Bible reading,
we can gain more insight
as to what the original writer intended,
of course, with the holy spirit’s influence.
A question—but before the question,
let’s look at verse 16.
It says: “Moreover
[so that’s the connective word, moreover],
“do not forget to do good
and share what you have with others,
for God is well-pleased
with [these] sacrifices.”
So now the question:
Is the doing good and sharing with others
referring to sharing the good news
with others in our territory?
No, it is not.
Well, how can I say
that with so much confidence?
For one thing, for years
when Hebrews 13:16
is cited by itself in The Watchtower,
the application is not to the preaching work.
Well, now lets give thought
to that connective word.
The word “moreover”
connects verse 16
to the preceding verse 15.
So lets read verse 15 now.
It says: “Through him
let us always offer to God a sacrifice
“[yes, but specifically a sacrifice]
of praise,
“that is, the fruit of our lips
that make public declaration to his name.”
So verse 15 had already addressed preaching.
The English word “moreover”
is defined as meaning
“in addition to what was already said.”
So the “sacrifice of praise” in verse 15,
that was cared for.
But now, in verse 16, in addition to that,
there are these other sacrifices
with which “God is well-pleased.”
So you see,
verse 15 is talking about preaching
with the goal to helping people
become Christ’s disciples.
Verse 16 is about doing good
and sharing with fellow believers
to help them remain Christ’s disciples.
Now, what do these other sacrifices
in verse 16 entail?
Well, as an example,
please find 2 Corinthians chapter 8
—2 Corinthians chapter 8.
This involves giving materially
to fellow believers in need.
Now, it’s true that here
Paul was writing to the Corinthians,
but in these few verses about sharing,
he’s referring to the Macedonian Christians.
Now, who were they sharing with?
It was fellow believers.
The congregations in Judea
were suffering hardship and poverty.
So the Macedonian Christians,
along with others,
were collecting money to help with that need.
Second Corinthians 8:2-4:
“During a great test under affliction,
“their
[that is, the Macedonian Christians, their]
“abundance of joy and their deep poverty
“made the riches of their generosity abound.
“For it was according to their means,
“yes, I testify,
it was even beyond their means,
“while they on their own initiative
“kept earnestly begging us
for the privilege of kindly giving,
“to have a share in the relief ministry
for the holy ones [fellow believers].”
So this was not preaching,
but it was certainly a good work
of generosity and sharing.
Now, as a side point to our text for today,
did you notice Paul said at Hebrews 13:16,
he said: “Moreover, do not forget
[do not forget] to do good and share.”
Why do you suppose “do not forget”
was inserted in that sentence?
We get distracted.
As imperfect humans,
we may have great intentions,
but sometimes we forget to follow through.
Now, Paul’s writing of the second letter
to the Corinthians
was about five or six years
before he wrote to the Hebrews.
So now, when writing to the Hebrews,
he says: “Do not forget.”
Paul may have had in mind
what happened to the Corinthians.
Are you still in 2 Corinthians chapter 8?
The Corinthians
had great intentions to do good
and to share with the congregations in Judea,
but it seems they forgot to follow through.
Second Corinthians 8:10, 11:
“And in this I give my opinion:
“This is for your benefit,
“seeing that already a year ago
“you not only initiated the action
but also showed your desire to do it.”
They had great intentions to contribute,
but a year has now elapsed.
Verse 11: “So now, also complete
what you started to do,
“so that your readiness to act
may be completed
according to the means you have available.”
Well, that’s a good reminder
for us not to forget
ones in our congregation
or elsewhere that are in need.
Write yourself a note.
When I think to do good to someone,
I send myself an email
so that I do not forget.
But, you know, even if we
can’t think of anyone in our congregation
that needs assistance,
maybe financially,
we cannot discount
the counsel of Hebrews 13:16.
Think of those Macedonians;
they went outside of the border
of their congregation territory
to give financially.
All of us, whether we have much or little,
all of us can contribute something
to the worldwide work,
especially when we think
of the number of disasters
that are affecting our brothers worldwide.
And then the organization
can direct those funds
to needy brothers and sisters
that we don’t even know,
just as Paul directed the contributions
in the first century.
Well, in addition
to providing relief financially,
some do good and share
by being physically involved
in disaster relief
—securing homes that have been damaged,
restoring Kingdom Halls.
Well, Jehovah is well-pleased
with all of these.
Well, in what other ways
can we do good and share?
Sharing hospitality in some way.
Romans 12:13 encourages us
to “follow the course of hospitality.”
And the time in preparing
and giving a Scriptural talk,
that falls into the category
of Hebrews 13:16.
But now,
what else could fall in that category?
How about an encouraging shepherding visit
or helping a sick one or helping the elderly?
These all fall into that giving.
You recall at Hebrews 13:15,
it spoke of “a sacrifice of praise”
and this “public declaration”
of Jehovah’s name,
preaching to unbelievers,
whereas verse 16
refers to talking to believers,
assisting them with these other sacrifices,
some of which we’ve mentioned.
Well, which is the most important
of those two verses,
15 or 16?
A 2009 Watchtower  asked:
“Which of these two Christian activities
is more important?”
It then said:
‘Asking a question like that
is similar to asking about a bird,
‘Which of his two wings are more important?
‘Well, the answer is obvious.
‘A bird cannot get into the air
‘with only one wing operational.
‘He needs both wings equally.
‘Like this bird,
‘we need to share in both aspects
‘of our service to God
in order to be complete Christians.’
Well, that Watchtower
said of these two responsibilities
that they complement one another.
So then we can soar,
knowing that Jehovah is well-pleased
with all such sacrifices.